k9an-wsprd is a decoder for K1JT's Weak Signal Propagation Reporter (WSPR) mode.

The program is written in C and is a command-line program that reads from a
.c2 file or .wav file and writes output to the console. It is designed so that
it can be used as a drop-in replacement for the wsprd program that wspr-x uses 
for decoding. 

k9an-wsprd requires only two external libraries: libsndfile and libfftw3

COMPILING:
A bare-bones Makefile is included. 

USAGE:
k9an-wsprd [-nqwv] [-f freq] infile

    -n write estimated noise level to file "noise.dat"
    -q quick mode doesn't dig deep for weak signals
    -w wideband mode displays decoded signals within +/- 150 Hz 
    -v verbose
    -f x (x is dial frequency in MHz)

infile can be either .wav or .c2

e.g. 
./k9an-wsprd -wf 14.0956 140709_2258.wav

Note that for .c2 files, the frequency within the file overrides the command
line value.

FEATURES:
By default, k9an-wsprd reports signals that are within +/- 110 Hz of the
subband center frequency. The wideband option (-w) extends this to +/- 150 Hz.

At present, k9an-wsprd does not maintain a hashtable, however it will decode
all three types of wspr messages. In the case of a type 3 message containing
a hash and a 6-digit locator the callsign will be displayed as <...>.

k9an-wsprd was optimized to maximize the number of decodes on a crowded band. It 
uses a looser selection criterion than K1JT's program and therefore tries to 
decode more potential signals. Sometimes, it gets lucky! 

The symbols are decoded using Phil Karn's sequential decoder routine,
fano.c. 

NOTES:
This program attempts to maximize the number of successful decodes per transmit
interval by trying to decode virtually every peak in the averaged spectrum.
As such, there will be occasional duplicate decodes when two closely spaced 
peaks come from the same signal. The program removes dupes based on callsign 
and frequency. Two decodes that have the same callsign and estimated frequencies
that are within 1 Hz will be treated as decodes of the same signal. This
dupechecking is turned off with the -v flag.

Feedback and suggestions for improvement are welcome!

Steve Franke, k9an
Urbana, IL, USA
s.j.franke@icloud.com


